---
layout: post
title: Week 04 - Colour Theory - Refining the colour and lights 
date: Febuary 17, 2020
--- 

During week 4 of this learning module I began by creating a short colour script to aid the overall narrative. I wanted to plan my colours quickly and chronologically before I moved from storyboards to conceptual layout designs. 

I also began research on a drawing program that would better suit my project. I decided to purchase a more professional program for my iPad, called ProCreate. It was recommended to me by a friend as well as very well reviewed on the Apple App store and quite inexpensive.  Although learning a new art program would take some time I was confident that it would help the production. 
   With The colour script on my mind I decided to dive into lighting as well.  I dug through some white papers on Google Scholar and found a really interesting paper called “Dynamic LIghting for Tension in Games, By: Magy Seif El-Nasr ”  One particular quote that spoke to me was.
>We aim to focus on the impact of simulated illumination on emotions and tension, thus making an argument for the role of lighting on gameplay and “flow.” (Seif El-Nasr, 2006).
>“flow” defined as a mental state of total involvement in a task (Csikzentmihalyi, 1997).
My colleague during the game jam had already worked with the lighting in Core Bore.  He programmed the broken panels to flash a red light while about to break off, as more and more panels break the ship become engulfed in red light.  The red glow of the lights creates an ominous sense of tension driving the player to work faster.  
   Moving forward with development I plan to add to this lighting system.  One piece of user feedback I received was that it was difficult to see which platform the character is fixing.  To resolve this issue I would like the player character to illuminate the panel that it is about to fix making the position clear.  
  In conclusion, colour and lighting will be at the forefront of my development in hopes to create a truly remarkable experience for the player. 
