---
layout: post
title: "Week 03 - Suspension of Disbelief - Exploring Fungus and RT-voice plug-ins"
date: Febuary 10th, 2020
--- 

   This topic really sparked my interest. The Suspension of disbelief is a topic that is the basis of the animation industry. I have spent most of my career facilitating this art form and to build upon it seems like a pleasure.
 
   An instance during this production that I can relate to this topic is when our game-jam group decided to put the miner character on the outside of the drilling machine.  Our initial ideas all focused on the interior of the machine which is the logical choice.  Although with animation and game design we can push the boundaries of what is accepted.  We decided to put the miner on the outside and although this would never work in reality, not a single game tester questioned the fact.   I feel that our group had very effectively used the suspension of disbelief to really create an original concept.
 
   Putting the concept aside, I explored the Fungus plug-in for Unity.  After reviewing the weeks course content on Ren’Py I needed to find an alternative that would work for my project.  Fungus was the answer, a free plugin that automates game narrative much like Ren’Py.  With initial tests integrating the plugin into the project a success, I decided to go back to the drawing board and create location and character sketches based on my narrative script.
 
   During my research this week I also looked into text-to-speech plugins for Unity.  Given the amount of lines in the dialog I might need an alternative to voice actors.  I found a Plugin called RT-voice that converts text to voice at run time.  After further research I found that this approach is used quite often in larger production and found an interesting paper on the subject.  As time permits I would still like to record a voice acted vocal track, I believe having a real human voice does add to the suspension of disbelief. 

[Fungus](https://fungusgames.com/)

[RT-Voice PRO](https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/tools/audio/rt-voice-pro-41068)

