---
layout: post
title: "Week 02 - Fictional Worlds and Game Mechanics - Building the CoreBore universe through narrative"
date: Febuary 3rd, 2020
---

During the second week I took a step back from development of the Core Bore game made at the Global Game Jam.  I wanted to make sure to move this project in the right direction and get as much feedback as possible.  Although I did get some really good feedback from the jam I needed more and from a variety of age groups. 

I contacted some of my work colleagues who had children and asked them to demo the game.  My first response was amazing, my colleague from work has two younger children and a boy and a girl.  I was told that they both played the game and really enjoyed the experience!  My colleague also stopped me in the office and gave me some encouraging words as well as some business tips.  He recommended that I message my group from the Game Jam and clarify that I was going to continue work on the Core Bore game with hopes of releasing it for sales.  

I did just that, I messaged my group and clearly stated that I wanted to continue work on the project as well as post in on Steam.  I expected more of a response, only a “Woa” from one of the group members. I may have come on too strong or they just are not interested in the game anymore.  Possibly a bit of both. 

I was still very proud of the game and began conceptualizing a universe for this lowly miner and his destructive drill.  started writing a Game Brief to pitch to my Master Group.  It began with a Story Synapsis.

>An unsuspected android miner and his dog unearths an ancient relic. The relic depicts an asteroid crashing into earth releasing a devastating bug invasion. The android must now reach the core of the asteroid to detonate an explosive and save the world!

After that The Game Brief quickly grew into Character sketches and bios Game mechanic breakdowns and the beginning of a narrative. 

<details> 
  <summary>Core Bore: Narrative Script</summary>
	
	
    Intro Scene Script 

Ivan: Ahh what a day for some asteroid mining, looks like there is a big one just ahead. 

Ivan: Buckle in Winston! we’re making our approach.

Winston: Ruff!

    The Rock Claw Drill ship lands on the asteroid 

Ivan: This asteroid is giving off some very strange readings, it looks like it has a solid metallic core and it’s hot!
Let’s get this drill going!

Winston: Ruff ruff.. (looks questionable)

Ivan: Got a bad feeling about this one eh, let’s go down to the surface and take some more readings.

    Ivan and Winston leave the Rock Claw and begin surveying the asteroid 

Ivan: Wow, I’ve never seen an asteroid like this before! There are some very extensive cave systems. 

Winston: Bark Bark Bark! 

Ivan: What’s up Winston? Hey wait up!

Winston runs down one of the caves after something and Ivan runs after him.

Ivan: Winston! Winston! Geez it’s dark in these caves, glad I have a tracker on that dog.  His signal is coming from just around this corner.

Ivan: Ahhhh!

    Winston is growling at a massive relic in the shape of an Alien bug.

Ivan: No way.. what a find Winston! Look at the size of that thing. 

Ivan walks closer to take a look

Ivan: These markings on the relic look like they tell a story 

    Ivan touches the relic and it lights up, a hologram is projected into the air.  It shows the asteroid trajectory towards earth, than an explosion followed by an army of Alien bugs overwhelming the planet.

Ivan: We need to stop this thing, Winston, or the planet’s doomed!

    Strange Alien-like sounds start chirping..

Winston: Bark Bark Bark Grrr!

Ivan: You hear that too, let’s get out of here… 

Ivan and Winston run back to the Rock Claw 

Ivan: Let’s get this drilling rig moving, if we can bore down to the core of this asteroid and release all of our dynamite we should be able to blow this asteroid to the other side of the galaxy!

Winston: Ruff!

    The scene transitions to the game scene, an exterior view of the Rock Claw. 
    

    In Game Scene Script

Rock Claw: Good morning Ivan and Winston, all systems are operational. Core Bore has commenced. 

    The game begins...and the Rock Claw is drilling normally

Ivan: Full speed ahead, Rock Claw, let’s move! 

    Screen shakes and an alarm sounds!

Rock Claw: It looks like the thermal temperatures are much higher than we anticipated. My hull plating can take much more of this! 

Ivan: I’ve got it covered! I’m heading out to repair the damaged panels.

	Ivan emerges from the Rock Claw and holds on to the side of the ship. 

Rock Claw: Use the W, A, S and D keys to navigate the ship and the Spacebar to activate your multitool and repair the panels.  

	After Player repairs three panels. Panels cannot fully break off at this point

Rock Claw: Great work! Keep those panels fastened! 

Winston: Ruff Ruff! (In an encouraging tone) 

    As damage is taken to the hull the Rock Claw AI and Winston the will pop-up at varying points. These notifications will be activated. 


    At 25% damage
    
Rock Claw: Please try to go faster. When those panels are gone.. they’re gone!

    At 50% damage

Rock Claw: Damage to the outer hull is 50%! Getting worried here!

    At 75% damage

Rock Claw: Hull Damage is at 75%! I can’t take much more of this!

    At 90% damage

Rock Claw: DAMAGE AT 90% PREPARING FOR ESCAPE PROTOCOL!

    At 99% damage

Rock Claw: DAMAGE 99% EJECTING ESCAPE POD!


As the Rock Claw passes through the progress bar this notifications will activate. 

	At 25% progress

Rock Claw: Great work so far! We’ve made it 25% through the asteroid!   

	At 50% progress

Rock Claw: We are halfway through the asteroid! I’m picking up some really weird readings from here on in.. Looks like movement.. Keep your eyes open we might have company! 

Winston: Arf Arf! grrrr..

Rock Claw: It appears to be an alien insect race resembling the relics.  They have razor sharp claws and are attacking the hull. Try to knock them off with your multi-tool.

At this point the Bug enemies are introduced, regular damage is postponed for a short time to allow the player to learn the new game mechanic. 

    At 75% progress

Rock Claw: 75% and holding! Keep fixing and keep those ugle bugs off me! 

Rock Claw: 85%! We’re almost there! Keep going!!

Winston: Arf Arf!

    At 75% progress

Rock Claw: 95% We’ve almost made it to the core!


Failure script:

    If 100% damaged is taken Failure script is called 

The Rock Claw begins to shake violently and implodes in on itself. The scene then transitions to a Game Over card with Ivan and Winston standing on the surface looking at the earth in the distance. The card also includes match stats and the option to replay the game. 
 
</details>


