---
layout: post
title: Week 06 - Character Design - Characters and some market research
date: March 03, 2020
--- 

 Week 6 was supposed to be aimed at character designs but because I had flushed those out weeks before (please see the below image for the designs). I decided to focus more on Market research.  Earlier in the week I signed up for a Steamworks account, after a lengthy tax interview and a payment of $140 my account is almost set up.. I am still trying to get some information from my bank to allow funds to be forwarded internationally. Anyways, it should be taken care of very soon and I will be able to begin working with the Steam API.  I plan to focus on a future sprint building the Steam Page and programming the Achievement system.  
 
 With the Steam system on my mind I decided to do some market research on the Steam platform and PC gaming in general. Based on statistics from https://www.statista.com/statistics/189582/age-of-us-video-game-players-since-2010/
 I found that Gamers aged 18 - 35 take 40% of all gamers and And gamers under the age of 18 are 21%. By targeting age groups 10 - 35 I should be able to tap into 51% of the players in the US. This statistics is relevant to my production being in English and on the Steam platform which is a primarily North American platform. I plan to taget this audience that averages 16 million users a day https://store.steampowered.com/stats/Steam-Game-and-Player-Statistics.
 
 I also decided to publish the game as an  “Indie, Action/Adventure, Singleplayer Arcade style game” for 0.99 cents.  At the present time there are about 20 000 Indie game titles on Steam. Only about 1000 games are in the sub genres I have chosen. I have yet to see a game with the same game mechanic, I believe that the originality and art direction Core Bore will set it apart.  
 
 During the week I also created a task list based on priority and found six key systems that I will build over the next four weeks. These features have been derived from user playtests and I am confident they will make this title ready for publishing.
 
- Longer rest times in game play, better controller system

- More of a reward for winning through narrative

- Optimizing the background rocks to reclaim some framerate

- Adding character animation and

- additional enemies that block vertical motion 

- Making the panel selection and breakdown rate more visually clear




